Every giant has a different story about Corda, well told and interrupted with tears and laughter, of how they lost it and mean to find it soon enough but oh, what of today? We should drink and cheer, we’ll search once again in the morning!
You’re a wise man, a high priest, a pond-pisser, a typical but committed adherent of P!P!Ssshrp. The bloated Toad God has no church other than the periphery of ponds where the foulness catches in the reeds and no congregation other than the gnats and dragonflies. You minister to them all the same.
As a second-story man you often have cause to wander. Enemies come naturally from both sides of the law and it pays to keep ahead of trouble.
You are Those-Filthy-Born, spawned in the hump-backed sky lit only by great black anti-suns and false light. Your mother was sailing on the golden barges or caught in some more abstract fate when she passed you, far from the protective malaise of the million spheres. You were receptive to the power and the glory at a generative time and it shows in your teratoid form.
You no longer don the spiked brass armour but you still have the ear of your Chaos patron. They’re happy for you to experiment with not plunging your world into disorder and, ultimately, darkness, but the door is always open.
The Key Masters wander the universe fathoming the workings of all entryways. Though they’re quite fascinated with simple chests and doors they are most excited by metaphysical and metaphorical barriers. You might find small conclaves of Clavigers camped around the feet of Demon Gates, debating appropriate methods of attack, or building obscure machines of entry.
You stake your reputation upon your ability to hunt and kill demonic creatures and those who break bread with them. Goat men in the wilds or the Angel cults of the slums, all need to be driven back off the edge of the map and onto the shores of chaos.
You are a short, hairy, belligerent, alcohol dependent creature. The latter two may be linked but you’ll fight anyone who suggests as much. Since there are no Dwarf women (or men, technically) there are no Dwarf children or Dwarf families so you can fully commit yourself to the important Dwarfy endeavours of creating fine art in unusual places. You intend to find the most unusual places ever seen in all the million spheres.
You are a roaming seer, selling your visions at courts and fetes. You are instantly recognisable by your yellow coif and habit as being open for business. Road weary and worldwise, your unpopular visions cause you to constantly move on.
No one has heard of your homeland. Your habits are peculiar, your clothes are outrageous, and in a land jaded to the outlandish and new you still somehow manage to stand out.
Mathmologists honour the clean and unambiguous truths of mathematics and coordinate them with their observations of the multiverse. All things can be measured and predicted with the application of the correct mathmological ratios, those methods applied to penetrate the ethereal surface and glimpse the fundamental numbers below.
Luggers are a servile group by nature, most often found in the service of others, weighed down by loads that would buckle a donkey. You take pride in this, so much so that the everyday assignments of the guild cannot sate your desire to serve, causing you to venture out in search of a real challenge for such a talented varlet.
No matter what country, sphere, or abstract dimension you may find yourself in, be assured that gremlins will be there digging their warrens and bothering nice people willing to pay you a shiny penny to bash their little heads in.
You are an assassin in training, graduated from fighting dummies and branding practise clients, freshly imbued with a license to ply your trade. You haven’t fully developed the idiosyncratic methods required of a master but you are on the path.
You were a mercenary retained in the exclusive service of the Phoenix Throne, handsomely paid and sent to distant spheres on golden ships to spread the ineffable glory of your lords at the tip of your flaming lance.
You were the ruler of all you surveyed, a great conqueror, a lawbringer! Unfortunately your horse sped off into the pixie forest, or the court magician ensured you disappeared, or you led a sortie into the stars to put your stamp on them as well. Either way you are now a lost and lonely sovereign without a kingdom—no one has heard of you or your people. Most don’t believe you and laugh, or worse, they do believe you and shrug at the vagaries of fate.
The Eaters know that there are only two worlds: the Without and the Within. They intend to insert as much of the prior into the latter as they can while experiencing the finest delights available. All culinary experience is open to them as nothing is forbidden at Miss Kinsey’s. Try the other, other, other white meat.
Life on The Wall is hard. One is never more than a few yards from an endless fall yet those precarious villages still need to eat. This is where you come in with your Edible Monkeys (the distinction is purely for appeal since all monkeys are of course edible). You used to spend days on end dangling your feet off the edge of the world, watching over your chittering livestock while they scampered hither and thither, but there was no future in monkey meat. You wanted much more and so stepped off. Or you fell off. Either way you and some unlucky monkeys are here now and that’s all that matters.
The least popular of magical practitioners, Necromancers are shunned by the major centres of learning, left to their own devices on the edges of society, passing on knowledge in the time honoured master–student dynamic. This loneliness encourages students to make their own friends.
Known for their smooth skin, midnight gatherings, and preturnatural fear of rain and open flames; the Parchment Witches are long-dead sorcerers who cannot give up the vanity of life. They cover themselves in perfect paper skin, a patiently painted and immaculately folded imitation of life intended to hide ancient bone and gristle.
Dwarfs are known for being the finest artisans of the million spheres. Give a Dwarf a rock and they will make gold, give a Dwarf a boulder and they will make a Dwarf. You were supposed to be the finest expression of Dwarfy craftsmanship, a true masterpiece, a brand new Dwarf like those made by the old masters, but you were deemed imperfect and abandoned.
You are on a quest for the grail, or the sword, or the throne, or for god, or a lost love, or some other significant object. Your sort are common enough, wandering the worlds, acting out your romantic melodrama, accusing good folk of being demons or faeries. Questing Knights are generally considered to be harmless.
You are an evangelist of the Red Redemption, wandering confessor, cauterizer of the festering wound of sin—the constant accumulation and recreational consumption of Mass. How can your spirit fly free while shackled and flabby?
The original Rhino-Men were created by an insane sorcerer several centuries ago but rebelled and killed him. They are fairly rare creatures, serving as formidable and loyal guards to those who can afford their services.
With the body of a bull, the head of a man, the forelegs of a cat, and the wings of a swan you are the sweetest of the children of the gods. You, however, were not content to rest on your cloud and instead descended from the heavens or crawled up from the abyss and set about finding your own path among the stars.
You are a student at Troika’s most prestigious wizarding academy (pride of the city, experts in pan-dimensional mobility) you were finally able to penetrate the (2d6)th door. You are no master but few outside your peers can claim to know more about the vagaries of skyward travel than you.
As an integral part of your tutelage in the sub-dimensional academy of the Cordial Wizard God you spent your childhood learning about the fate of pixies, the colour of magic, ritual grammar, and endless other theoretical topics. Now you’re out in the world, discovering that your education hardly accounted for any of the things that you’ve seen.
Brawlers believe the application of might and a good beef steak is the universal truth. Words have no power and can no more define the universe than they can build a house, lift a cup, or sear a steak. Might can! Really, they have thought a lot about this.
You were once (and possibly still are) a fanatical monk set to maintain constant, vigilant martial readiness in preparation for the end times, when all doorways crumble inwards. You are always prepared and never unready.
Wandering miracle workers, the depths of whose clothes are filled with pouches of unguents, holy icons and herbs. No matter the metaphysical need, you are always prepared.
Your eyes are dull ruby spheres, your skin is hard and smooth like ivory but brown and whorled like wood. You are clearly broken, you have no memory of your creation or purpose, and some days your white internal juices ooze thickly from cracks in your skin.
Your village was burnt down by ruffians, or your mother was beheaded by snake cultists, or your father was hung by corrupt officials. Either way you took umbrage and entered the world with a chip on one shoulder and an oversized Sword on the other.
You’re a classically trained Academic, a product of the universities of the Brass City, the Palace of Tigers, or some other less prestigious centre of learning among the spheres.
Some people say man is the most dangerous prey. They’re wrong. Can men ignite the air and freeze your blood? Can men turn into flocks of seagulls when cornered in an alley? No, they can’t. Wizards are the most dangerous prey.
Down in Yongardy they do things differently. They respect the Law. Every day there is a queue outside the courts to get a seat to see the latest up and coming barrister defend their case with three feet of steel. The people follow the careers of their favourite solicitors, watch all their cases, collect their portraits, and sneak into the court after hours to dab the patches of blood on white handkerchiefs. In Yongardy, they love the Law.
At some point in your past you decided you didn’t need it anymore: you found a Zoanthropologist and paid them well to remove your troublesome forebrain and elevate you to the pure and unburdened beast you are today.
The Modica don’t recognise the distinctness of the universe from the matter of the Monad, believing that each person, aeon, fish and rock are equal and indivisible parts of the divine. When confronted with the obvious disharmony of reality they defend themselves with metaphors of sickness in the unconscious body and ponderous parables about the hair on your head and its knowledge of their hair of your toes. Eventually all but the most committed polemists stops listening and concede the point.
You wake up early every day to set your cauldron bubbling. Before anyone else has awoken there you are, walking the market from top to bottom to top again. You ignore the silk sellers and fire sellers and moss sellers, the bubble makers and book lenders and tooth pullers. You don't waste your time watching their shows and gimmicks, their noise and theatre. No, what you have everyone wants and they know where to go when they need it. What you have is eggs.
We exist in a universe of warbling spheres floating and sinking through the quintessential media like wax through boiling oil. Elevated and agitated by the aeons and then made cold again as we flee from its light. How then can we remain firm in our position, knowing there is an abundance above and below ourselves, that we are both far less and far more than so many things? Maybe above our position are other races who call themselves and not us people, who benignly look at us as pets, who are large, of godlike intellect, easily bored and in need of an entertaining and indignant creature to dress up and love to help affirm their own position on the sliding scale of acquaintance. It would only be right.
You’re not a magic dog, you’re not a talking dog, but you are a good dog.
Conductors were once an essential administrative arm of the Phoenix Throne, whose duty was to brief exaltants on the applicable procedures for interacting with diplomatic cacogens, undines, and all other possible spherical dignitaries. However since the Collapse of Good Governance, the Uncivil War and the repurposing of the sea towers, contact with the outer worlds has fallen from favour. So instead they read their books in the decayed and forgotten suites of the Green Palace and prepare for the day when the sky opens and their services are needed again.
When the inner becomes outer, and the upper becomes lower, when the male and female form the single-backed child who's eyes are replete with eyes and who's image is in place of an image, then you will enter the kingdom. These sidereal psychopomps will lead all matter to the monad and terminal oneness, it is the duty of the kinidymos to ensure this never happens.
To all knowledge you are the last remaining wizard on this wretched cosmic rock. You hate everything about it and everyone on it, however you quietly maintain a great hubris for the esteemed and vaunted position you hold. Your skills are narrow yet powerful and with your grimoire of lost and then found again knowledge, penned by the illustrious time-lord Chromic, you have the ability to sift through the skeins of time and witness portents of what is yet to come, leaving you always wary of what's around the corner. You keep many stones and precious rocks in your single pocket.
You are the chosen one, tales of your heroic deeds have reached the farthest corners of the realm and you are an unambiguous force for good.  Dozens of fell sorcerers and scores of tyrants have fallen before you, what is one more?
You are mute and have a temperate temper. You grew up in the wilds and you love animals. You dislike the company of others and your only means of communication are rude gestures or your satchel-full of “Read-Me Rats™ ”; Taxidermied baby rats making clear gestures of yes, no and maybe. You have a penchant for the exotic and esoteric.
You are a proud member of the ICLC, they treat you well and supply you with explosive microtech. The ICLC is rebuilding its image and public perception after a multitude of incidents where failings of it's operational standards and public safety measures were called out. Incidents that you have almost nothing to do with. You enjoy acronyms.
You are one of the few remaining Arcano-Thieves. Once a haughty and disdainful club of ne'er-do-wells, they were vagrant magic stealers who spent their lives digging deep in to the ruins of the past. You have two crystal globes remaining of your famed collection, the others now spent in your journey to the blackened north, one red and one green.
You are duty bound to uphold this most revered of tasks and you perform it with gusto - to lug the stuff. You know where its stored and if you aint got it they aint getting' it! The only item you personally own amongst the packs, panniers, purses, pouches and pockets is a massive skillet. You can wield it destructively if need be.
Modica don’t recognise the distinctness of the universe from the matter of the Monad, believing that each person, aeon, rock and stream are equal parts of the divine body. When confronted with the violent disharmony of reality they engage in intense didactics. What knowledge has the hair on your head of the hair on your toes? Do we not bite our nails? Consider the glacier in the valley. And so on, so on they go.
Up and down the market you go, up and down with your your pickling pot, your jars and jars and jars hung from colourful cord and clanking. You fancy yourself the finest example of the market’s spirit, a true peddler in the old methods, a visiting saint in this rough parish, shouting your sermon from the pulpit “COME GET YER EGGS!”
You crossed the sky on flaming horses, you fought Lord Quasar on the shores of Titan and toppled his Blue Glass Conservatories, you fled the War Sphere with an army of brain-broken star-bastards at your back. You stole the Bridle of Aeons, you touched the Eye of God, you saw it you took it you lost it all over again, you are the Star Tyrant.
You are the disciple of a roving monastic order committed to the preservation of reality. You once sailed from sphere to sphere inside your hermetic fortress, plumbed the depths of non-existence, fusil in hand, engaging in highly abstract combat with the forces of entropy and psycho-oblivion. However one day on returning from an excursion beyond the black rainbow you found your fortress to be gone. In itself not surprising, the fortress goes where it is needed, but to leave behind a Sentionaut is unheard of except in the most desperate situations. Investigation is warranted.
You would pull on your welly boots just as the sun is rising, every day. You’d walk the quiet streets of Troika with your ladder slung over your shoulder, tapping on doors and asking “bag your owls, guv?”. With a coin you’d climb up your ladder and stuff your sacks with tired owls clogging the gutters and bowing the rafters, or with a dismissive wave you’d be on your way; plenty more where that came from.
Schoom off with their head. Woosh watch it go. No one ever took as much joy in their job as you. If the crowd stormed the stage and removed your mask they’d see your beaming face right to the end. But that was then, now you’re out on The Road where no one appreciates a craftsman. Blunt axes and dirty blocks everywhere you go.
You sat days and nights at the ancient controls of the Autarch’s sky shattering artillery, ready for the word to pivot the canons and fire. At your hands those sleeping machines could wake up and split the world in two, but instead you sat in the dark and monitored the blinking lights that said the Commonwealth’s enemies were still sleeping.
You are a student of the Unweighted Scale and can see beyond the firmament to the piscean creatures that float amongst us, transposed on our dry reality. With effort you can reach beyond and whorl the ethereal waters, but are prone to becoming lost in watching these eidolons when you think no one is looking.
Troika nights are brief and have the habit of sneaking up on a fellow, much like the Lamplighters themselves. As night descends so too do the Worshipful Companions, brandishing their polehooks and multicoloured phlogiston torches (each flame’s hue befitting a member's inscrutable standing within the guild). After a brief but intense bout of street violence and tasteful illumination they are gone, returned to their chapter houses below the street corners.
Tzarina Dunwicket IV, upon learning of her long expected pregnancy, took to wearing dresses with the a hole in the front through which all could witness the ongoing gestation. It was eventually revealed through a series of public miracles that the occupant of her womb was not in fact a child but a reincarnated archon with no intention of coming out. We all know the story from there. However, to alleviate the Tzarina’s distress the court and all fashionable ladies and gentlemen adopted the same style, revealing their bellies and seeking to make them as bulbous as possible. To this day urban fops such as yourself adopt the style in fashionable defiance of court trends, declaring yourselves to be proud tumeres.
They never stop growing. The limitanei can get them young, while they’re wild and reckless with their head still below the treeline, but for anything more they are outmatched and far from the Green Palace. Whole towns are abandoned when a cunning and fertile family dig deep into the hillside, unless of course they are so lucky as to have the benefit of your storied trade.
You wear the bulbous and ballooning habit of the Order of St. Selfridge, you don the many layered wigs, you paint your skin in the Adequate Hue, you receive every donation with an “as it ought to be”, and you buy only the finest oils and dried fruits. To some you are a common beggar, but you know you are an uncommon breed.
The daedal borders of the commonwealth are largely forgotten by the Phoenix Throne, maintained only by inertia and the institution of the Limitanei. You were one of the young volunteers of these rural militiae, received the ancient weapons and armour invested in the town since before the Autarchs looked inwards, and been instructed in their basic usage. You grew tired of chasing arctother from the city streets and dreamt of crossing into the silent exterior, so you left and took your relics with you.
Metropolitan travellers might remark on how strange it is to see a Spider outside of a bank teller’s window and you might remark in turn on how insensitive that is. Indeed, the thought that someone could hurt the feelings of a 6ft tall spider never crosses most people's’ minds, but a spider-heart aches like any other. However in truth you do not possess a spider-heart, at your core beats something far worse: the pungent heart of a Speculative Financier of the Spider Bank.
Your body is a canvas. When you left your home you left it covered in goodbyes, since then you have been painted in hellos and destinations and peoples. You are a a spray-paint golem, freely following the commands as you interpret them. Some of the goodbyes can still be seen, faded between newer more vivid contributions.
One day you woke up in the arms of a giant, singed and lolling in its arms. You thought of how nice it would be to stretch your legs, and it put you down. You had trouble walking and felt that maybe this was a hasty decision, it put you on its shoulders. And so on and so on until this point in this place. You are still learning and still making mistakes, but your companion is always there for you, to pick you up again.
You are a buccaneer of that rebel society of the asteroids, who find fraternity among thieves adhering to a simple code: No member may rob or cheat another, loot must be apportioned by established rules, and no captain may command without being elected by the crew.
You have been recently rescued from the silvery Lunar wastes where you were long marooned.
What is there in life for you now that you have been compelled to flee the shining court of His Heliocephaliac Majesty, Helios XXIII, Emperor of Mercury? The other worlds are so cold! Still you persevere.
You are a veteran of many voyages and an essential member of any astronef crew. It is often no mean feat to wring something edible from the bounty of the spontaneous generation vats, and occasionally, you succeed.
Your dead eyes have beheld things no man was meant to see. Adrift in the Tartarean reach beyond Saturn, you bore witness to the protean horrors of the Titans of Chaos, stared in cold wonder at legion ruined Gamorrahs of the rebellious Nephilim, and suffered at the peril of your immortal soul the sirens’ allure of alien Atlantean heathenry. You returned alive, but not unchanged.
You are a Vermin Disposal Expert, though they often diminish your work, naming you merely 'rat-catcher.' But who among them has seen what strange vermin arise from the putrefaction of wastes of scores of space crews mingling in the cesspits of an asteroid? Much less hunted and captured those foul things? You have.
Beneath the sands your people toil, digging out shards of metal from some long forgotten war. You’re stout, wrapped about with a shell like an armadillo and have four arms. The life of toil and war without the sun left you wanting, and so you set out.
You were an outrider of your fleet, a three armed no-legged dun-skinned scout, guiding the fleet away from danger and towards vulnerable targets. Something happened, and you left, perhaps by choice. You still have your single-rider craft, but you’ve lost purpose.
You are one of the anarchist, reptilian murderers from the southern wastes, known for your horrendous brutality and sculptures made of limbs, bound together by cacti-needles. You left your tribe behind, perhaps seeking to test yourself and return ready to Shepard the tribe as a Slow Warlord.
You were once nobody, until you successfully rode the sandworm, true lord of the desert. You’re now something between a shaman and a trouble-shooter. It is true the worm showed you things, but what mystical properties you ascribe to this is known to you alone.
You were born and raised in the shadows of dead gods, picking through the endless rubble and debris of a dead age. Oh, what things you have found, and lost.
You were one of the many pilgrims who travel to the Plastic Sea, having chosen glory and young death above being worn down by the sands. You are one of the few who decided to test themselves in the world at large, rather than dying upon the Plastic Shores.
You awoke in a glass tube in the midst of the remains of your culture. Everything is gone. You were frozen to restore the old world - but seeing this desolation, is it worth it?
You are, or were, an agent for one of the rare and ruthless Freshwater Grubs, leading their criminal empires from their techno-tanks filled with precious, filtered water. You’ve been extensively trained and paid.
You weave words, into poetry and spells alike. You are greatly respected by the Thousan Sultans, who often pay heavily to be your patron.
You are unpopular - religion is not common amongst the peoples of the waste, yet you truly believe. They have blessed you with such powers, how could they not be a true god?
You are utterly reviled by all good folk. Your mutations are undeniably useful. This puts you in an interesting position.
You glide upon the thermals, ranging far and wide across the desert, seeking something. Perhaps food for the people, or their enemies. Perhaps a water scout? Regardless, your Skills have use to others.
In the deep wastes, tortoises the size of towns wander, decimating oases whenever they are found. Rather than attempt to race the tortoises, your people settled atop them, slow-moving pirates of the wastes. Something killed your mount, and almost all of the people died, and you are left alone.
Those skeletons are not gods - they were fighting machines. And you, poor unfortunate, have one of them inside your head. It is diminished, your fleshy body barely able to maintain its most basic functions, but it is there, and you can hear it. It’s supplanted your own Skills with those it desires, seeking a new, more fitting form.
You have learnt the art of taming the many reptiles of the wastes, teaching them tricks and ensuring their loyalty. To what purpose? That is for you to decide.
You are valuable, oh yes indeed. Beloved by the poor, despised by the merchant, some freak mutation or magical gift allows you to flawlessly find water. What happens next?
All but the holy wavelength are false. Some members of your order have purified their retinas to expunge the blasphemous receptors, but you retain yours to bear witness to their grotesque vibrations. Let the gods sort heretics into ultraviolet heavens and infrared hells, you have painting to do.
While your companions are busy wrestling and hacking away at some foe, you're already planning the bloodstone obelisk that will forever mark this place. Your paths through the spheres are marked by cairns, tombstones, and temples. For you, the only things worth remembering are written in stone.
You carry the maw of your god upon your back, and your god is always hungry.
You were the only survivor of an expedition to the fountain of youth, and you’ve carried back as much of the legendary waters with you as you could carry. However, eternity is proving too short a time to make your fortune hawking your miraculous wares. You meander from sphere to sphere, seeking out the desperate and the gullible after being laughed out of throne rooms and grand halls. Maybe somewhere there’s one fool enough, or a deal cheap enough, to offload some of your priceless haul.
The candidates are secret, the districts jagged, voter registration arcane, but there’s an election to be run. It’s your job to find babies to wave and hands to kiss for your future club president…whoever they might be.
From birth, your body was molded by straps, frames, and ropes into odd forms and shapes. The resulting silhouette provides you an anatomical camouflage on the battlefield. How can the enemy pierce your heart when there’s already a hole in your chest, or decapitate a head that’s hidden in your foot?
Behind the brazen charges and bristling armies that sweep and collide across the spheres, you wage your own war in hellish ditches and ramshackle huts that pass for operating theatres. Almost as spectacular and strange as the weapons that make them, the wounds of your patients constitute the intricate intrigues at the heart of your feverishly wrought dramas. You’ve been at this too long, and finally caught a body that snapped your typically adamantine heartstrings. The wars left behind, will your quaking hands and quivering lips prove fatal for your new comrades?
You once had nothing to your name. That was until a stray bucket fell on your head. Now, you have a pail and/or amnesia (but probably just the pail). The question arises; what does one do with a magic bucket? The answer: adventure.
What are goblins made of? Chaos and snot, and meat left to rot. Goblins are small dark green people with noses, mouths, ears and big toes out of proportion to the rest. They are the backbone and the whipping boys of any evil horde. They're smarter than you think, and often manage to get away when the overlord is slain and his citadel is burning.
Evil has a problem with cohesion and loyalty. It has a tendency to undermine itself for profit, fun, or out of duty. The Fellowship of Mephitic Sycophantry belong in that last category. They are minor imps and sundry hell-beings filling up the ranks of an evil horde. They masquerade as bungling acolytes and feckless goblins, experts at licking boots and nothing else. Even if an evil power-grab fails due to incompetence and ego-bloat, these infernal creatures win.
A crowblin is a crow-like goblin, or a goblinoid crow. It walks on two legs, has a beak, and can, on a good day, manage a few moments of awkward half-flight. Their cawing voices carry far, and almost always seem to have a hint of glee and raucous ridicule. Goblins say they're another dumb experiment gone wrong, while crowblins consider themselves to be an example of divine improvement. This disagreement has made the crowblins adept at hiding, even from their more numerous cousins.
It is humanity’s own fault if the fanged gentlebeast has joined the evil horde. Not long ago it lived in a cave or a hollow tree, a quiet philosopher of nature. If it ate a sheep, a child or a serf, it was no more than is lost to wild animals and accidents. Their fire. Their traps and their rage was a crude intrusion into unfettered contemplation. Anything that happens now is on them.
A hogoblin is a pig-headed goblin of greater-than-average size. Their pig-headedness is literal, but figurative as well. They have been bred to be frontline fighters, with less propensity for cowardice than their goblin cousins. Maybe that succeeded a little too well, as they are liable to take their porcine rage out on each other at inopportune moments. They can sometimes be distracted with food.
Lizardpeople generally find mammals distasteful and weak, but a few join evil hordes due to serving the same masters (mainly serpent demons), or as slave warriors. A lizardperson looks like an upright crocodile with opposable thumbs, and it acts like its shit does not stink.
The meatpatch man is a creature made from patches of skin and flesh, stretched over mismatched bones. The skin sags sickeningly in one place, and is contoured sharply over bones in another. It is the product of dark magic and medicine, and has no place in the natural order of things. It stinks of formaldehyde too. A meatpatch man has few allies in this world, except for those few that are deemed similarly freakish.
Some call them the Norns’ step-sisters or a poor man’s Furies. No one does so around the filth-crones however. A filth-crone is the oldest, ugliest, grimiest and most hatchet-faced woman you can imagine. She smells of asparagus and piss. The Filth-Crone weaves visions of the future on her gross loom, and the smart overlord will often consult her before a battle.
It is usually an older and less aggressive hogoblins who have the task of patrolling the dark citadel and grounds. They have turned their pig-rage into an omnidirectional paranoia that is quiet, yet intense. The watchman has survived fighting the Forces of Good, as well as all the dangers in an overlord’s lair. His fears are solid, educated ones, and their causes are all around him.
A doom-shade is an undead agent of the netherworld, a glum shadow-warrior, secretly overjoyed at being out of Hell for while. Physically it appears as a tattered black cloak floating silently by. Occasionally a grinning skull peers out from under the cowl. No one suspects this, but doom-shades will sometimes twist an overlord’s plans slightly, if it means staying ‘top-side’ a little longer.
Ogres may not be clever, but they know food. Any ogre worth its spice rack has sampled all sorts of meat it has encountered, including the ritual devourment of their parents (with garlic). As such it is not uncommon to see ogres in an evil overlord’s kitchen. Sometimes a brawl will break out and someone will become a main ingredient. The food always tastes great though.
A troll is a large, lumpen creature, known mainly for its refusal to die from natural causes. They do however have a faculty for accounting and number-crunching. Some say this ability was a gift from one of the Lords of Misrule, and that there is a circle of Hell where trolls endlessly subtract and divide the body parts of the damned. However it may be, trolls invented the abacus and the concept of zero, but still regard fire with religious awe. An evil overlord will often have a troll in charge of the treasure chamber. Trolls care little for gold, but hate discrepancies.
Goblins have no gods. No one has come forward to claim responsibility for them, or to protect them in troublesome times (which is almost all the time). The goblin shaman channels something else, something that whoops, hollers and ejaculates protoplasm all over the shop. The totality of ur-goblinity perhaps, shat through time and place.
Being an evil overlord is dangerous. Even when the Forces of Good aren't coming at you, there's the ambitious lieutenant, the fickle demon lord, and the opportunistic malcontents who call themselves adventurers. A Mnemo-Spectre is what is left of the most stubborn overlords, after the world has stabbed them in the back. A billowing shroud of shadow, blood and tenacity. The Mnemo-Spectre potentially has great power, but its grasp of time and place is confusing and tenuous. The Mnemo-Spectre will at times not be able to remember names or allegiances, but will remain razor sharp when it comes to ambition and the nature of slights. It is paranoid, frustrated, gloating, and occasionally magnanimous. One thing is certain: it WILL return to power.
Elves are made from dreams, a gossamer material of beautiful color and potential. Most elves stay aloof and apart from the baser species, lest they become dulled and sullied by reality. Low elves are the few who take a different path, wallowing in booze, shit, violence and associating with the Forces of Evil. In this way they press their reality upon the world. Low elves smell, stomp and burp, but beneath the grime one can see the vestiges of unreal beauty. They’re still supercilious gits.
The Forces of Evil love their breeding programs and their ill-advised hybridizations. Hence the gark. A gark is an incongruous mix of two worlds. It has the strength, size, and hunger of an ogre and the intellect and hankering for trouble of a goblin, yet does not fit in with either group. The ogres are just too dumb, and goblins do not properly appreciate a good bout of ultra-violence among cousins.
Some people manage to negotiate with their disease. The result is a cancerman, a creature made from lumps, boils, tumors and vestigial tails. It can’t really die, but can you really call it alive. Worst among these are the undoctors, missionaries of pestilence and canker. They can heal you, but your flesh grows back as unsightly growths and your blood becomes a grey green pus. An undoctor is gentle, softly spoken, and as he sits by your bedside his sores will not cease oozing.
A strange creature from an underworld called the War Sphere. The pain merchant is a vaguely humanoid figure made from blades. Its eyes are blue as a gas-flame and seem distant. The pain merchant is a source of cruel and twisted weapons, still warm from the War Sphere’s suffer-forges. A pain merchant has trouble understanding things that aren’t war or the preparation for war. To a pain merchant a lute will seem like a very poor weapon, and a painting of a landscape nigh-useless intel.
The crowblins are generally regarded as a mistake, or some sort of infernal joke. The crowblin assassin casts some doubt on who exactly the punchline is. This crowblin has single-mindedly focused on becoming silent and deadly, striking from surprising angles and escaping through what you might generously call winged flight. Yet there is no one left alive to express any sort of mirth.
Some people just need a place to belong, and when you’re a no-account serf or cottar, being an evil overlord’s crony (even if is an abused and disrespected crony) can seem like a step up. It usually doesn’t entail backbreaking work in some wet barley field. Even if the acolyte tires of being ill-used, and the constant threat of becoming ogre-stew, there usually isn’t a place to go back to. Once you throw in your lot with evil, it’s hard to go back to sharecropping.
It is a sad truth that a hunchbacked gatekeeper has become an accessory to many overlords. These people are often bought from callous parents and raised as guards and keymasters surrounded by goblins, skeletons and imps. The adult hunchback is a tough customer, accorded respect, even from hogoblins and ogres.
The grey dwarves usually work in the deepest strata of the earth. Work defines their world, and things not useful to their work is at best irrelevant. Hence it is unusual to see a grey dwarf in an evil horde, even one operating out of a dungeon. It must have determined that this servitude to some light-dweller (even a dark overlord is a light-dweller to grey dwarves) furthers the work in some way. A grey dwarf is decidedly dour, and seems to feel that everyone else are work-shy weaklings.
Most reanimated skeletons literally don’t have the brains they were born with. A few retain intelligence after being reanimated, or perhaps a runaway soul uses the bones as a hiding place. These skeletons are often put to use as marksmen, as their eyeless sockets do not water from wind and smoke, and their hands do not tremble with fear or agitation. Intelligent skeletons (or ‘skellies’ as the goblins call them) are often quite gregarious, and as their fleshless kin do not speak much, try to fit in among the living.
An overlord is likely to attract followers wanting to learn the dark arts from a true master. Even if the overlord isn’t a warlock, they usually hang around, playing dice and lording it over the goblins. There are usually some mysteries for them to plumb in the overlord’s expansive lair. If they’re lucky they’ll survive it.
It happens more often than you might think. A child of a noble lineage despairs at ever inheriting power. Maybe a parent or an older sibling is the main obstacle, maybe it is something more nebulous, like a heavenly mandate. However the case may be, she sees an alliance with evil as an expedient way to get what she feel she is owed. The outcome is rarely what she hoped for.
The winged monkey used to be carefree and mischievous, but in no way evil. Their downfall allegedly came about through playing a prank on a sorceress’ fiancee. This occasioned the creation of a golden cap imbued with the magic power to control the monkeys. This magic was copied by every tinpot overlord worth his throne. Now, tragically, a free winged monkey is as rare as hen’s teeth. There is a rumor among the monkeys that the caps’ magic is fading, or even that some overlord have no cap. The creatures have internalised subservience to such a degree that none of them have tested this. Yet. A winged monkey looks like a Japanese snow monkey, if somewhat larger and black. They have large bat-like wings, and usually carry tridents in their tail.
An overlord must look their horrid best. As such they import the best tailors from the underworld. A demon tailor is a pale personage with needle fingers and the barest hint of horns on their forehead. A demon tailor works with an ever-expanding range of materials. Iron headdresses, skirts of living skin, dog heads stuffed with silver maggots and nail collars are all possibilities for those daring fashion-makers. A demon tailor’s greatest annoyance is a conservative or timid dark lord.
When a champion of Good is dying on the field of battle, infernal forces will sometimes offer them a bargain: join us, and you do not have to pass on. Fear humbles most, and many have taken the offer. The result is a death knight, a great warrior haunting their own dead body, encased in brutal black armor. The death knight is not truly alive, but has not passed on. That is the way Evil keeps its promises. Most death knights feel cheated and bitter, but dread removing the armor which keeps them alive for fear of their fate after death. They usually take out their rage on the armies of Good. Where was the help when they needed it?
A gremlin is a goblin that has been infused with the essence of a minor demon of ruin. The gremlin still acts much like its goblin cousins, but has a distinct knack for sabotage, and for destroying anything which could be generously be described as a ‘machine’. Goblins tend to avoid a gremlin, as they consider it (somewhat justifiedly) a jinx.
Overlords tend to have a massive nigh-unkillable monster somewhere in their base of operation. It does not have to be a hydra, but we will use it as a shorthand. The hydra-wrangler is usually a skinny little person who looks like the hydra has drained their energy directly. They are respected by all, from death knights to latrine goblins, since they are the single person (save, perhaps, the overlord) who can exercise any kind of control over the hydra.
This goblin has been promoted to wait on the dark lord personally. This mean wearing nice clothes, but also getting a kick up the backside if the lord is ‘in a mood’. Still the goblin manservant is all kinds of snooty, and might be suspected of being a snitch. He isn’t though.
Black powder is a recent invention, and evil has taken to it like a duck to water. To properly utilize this destructive miracle an overlord hire itinerant alchemists called demolition demoniacs, since their stink of sulphur and love of destruction rivals any pit-fiend. A demolition demoniac sees an explosion as a re-shuffling of reality, a creation of new patterns through destruction. Of course the demoniac knows that the overlord pays her to destroy his enemies, but that is a question of politics, not essence. There is no bad explosion.
This is the peak of hogoblindom (according to them). The rage is tempered by experience, and the cruelty is handed out with intent and purpose. They’re still hog-headed warriors motivated by slaughter, but time has put some flab on them. They don’t have to run at the enemy.
Unflappable and eternally cheerful, you are known as a fine lawman, and an appreciator of fine coffee. You have cultivated a suite of peculiar mannerisms that range from “quirky” to “just plain odd”: perhaps a penchant for an enthusiastic thumbs-up, and a tendency to spout cryptic metaphysical platitudes. You always trust your dreams.
Your husband, rest his soul, is lost to you now. His body was taken in flame, somewhere deep in the Burning Wood. But his soul found its way, as souls do, and now lives in a length of charred wood which you carry with you. In moments of great import, you can hear his voice clear as the summer sky.
A devotee of the codes and procedures of the Guild of Vocational Potation, you know what’s up when the chips are down: Money. Make no mistake, there’s plenty of room in the world for an equitable deal, just so long as your part of the deal is a little more equitable than the other guy’s. It’s even easier when your business is booze.
There’s something about slime, formless and untenable as it is, that loves structure. Craves it, even. So you pull yourself together, piling the liquidity upon itself until it approximates the Solid organisms around you. You’re getting better at controlling it. They should work as hard, those Solids, at keeping themselves together. Someone should really enforce some better behavior here. The Solids could use some law and order.
There are many fighters in the world, plying their violent trade, but you know a secret. There’s a deep and dark magic in the sea, immensely powerful if you know to harness it. It’ s a strict regiment, eating 821 pounds of cod per year, and many think you’re losing your mind. But who among them does not smell what you’re cooking? You’ve been thinking of taking up acting.
You served a king once. “Keeper of the Royal Eels” you were. Now look at you. Trudging the countryside, practically begging people to buy them off you for pennies. “They’re delicious, ”you say, “and good for powering any number of complicated clockworks! ”They never really believe you. It’ s enough to make a person bitter.
You don't remember who you were before let alone what, or who put your brain in a jar let alone why. All you know is you have a passion for bad movies, growing fungi, and know an uncomfortable amount about the Lovecraftian Cults.
You're a mermaid. You're from the void that the spheres hang in and you like to eat people.
Your people dwell in massive habitats made of giant trees in space. Whether or not you grew up in an actual Lagrange hab, there is a common culture. You are long, stringy, and your skin is brown to black.
You're a well-dressed aristocratic sailor of the stars. Extremely charming to anyone they perceive as being their equals or betters. All non-nautilia are servants, conveyances, or food. You are actually a small nautilus-like creature that can gain control of any headless mammalian body, preferring those of humans and similarly shaped creatures.
You're a squid from space. You can float and fly in the air. You are as good of a pilot as you are definitely not a Cultist.
You're not bad (well maybe you are), but you were definitely drawn that way.
You are told you are an orc because you arrived here through a 'magical mishap.' No one believes that you aren't an orc, but are an astronaut of the most powerful nation on your world. Or maybe they simply don't care.
You were an important person, once, but after your company was taken over and liquidated you found yourself a bit rootless. Which is how you found yourself here.
You're a person who travels around selling things, like vacuums or brushes or some other mundane thing. You're flustered at somehow ending up here, but, hey, you got sales to make.
Due to a space-fold mishap you've found yourself in a weird land of Zentradi and other giant creatures.
Whether an actual demon or merely demonic, for you'll never tell, you are member of the illustrious guild of barbers, and your epitaph is well earned for the keeness and quickness of your shaves, and your rumored dark appetites.
You're a well-dressed aristocratic sailor of the stars. Extremely charming to anyone they perceive as being their equals or betters. All non-nautilia are servants, conveyances, or food. You are actually a small nautilus-like creature that can gain control of any headless mammalian body, preferring those of humans and similarly shaped creatures.
You're a so called Moon-Rat and from a distance you could be mistaken for a human child where it not for your ears and large customized fusil. It is true that long ago your people came from a moon, but who cares. You have money to make and people to shoot. There is a rivalry between the three fellowships on how they achieve their repudiated prowess with fusils: the Order of the Blackened Hand, who will customize plasmic cores; the Jolly Fraternity of the Crosshair, who believe in picking their shots carefully; the School, who customize their fusils constantly and heavily.
The only gift your parents ever gave you was the schawl they wrapped around your body before they left you to die of exposure. But you did not die. Instead the gentle lilies bent over and dripped water between your lips while the old willow tree sheltered you from the burning sun and the crushing rain. Even now, the plants of that forest remain your only family.
As frost coats the bark of ancient trees and cold begins bites at the fingers and toes of foolish travellers, you twist the humors of the season, calling wind and snow down onto your foes with little regard for those who are swept away in their wake.
Life is a song, and though you can’t choose the melody, you can write the lyrics. So you sing a jolly aria over a mournful tune. You sing like your voice is fading because it is. You dance like you’re going to die because you will. You fly like you were born with wings, because you wish you were. When trouble comes, when darkness falls and the words to your song stick to the dry walls of your throat, then you can just fly away somewhere else, can’t you? It’s what you’ve always done before.
You know that the magic is merely the art of making the world adhere to your will, and you mastered that skill when you were still a child. Though as of yet you have few followers, you have the grace, wit, and sublime aura to convert many more. The drugs help, too.
Across all the lands that lie bathed by starlight, your name is exalted, your person praised, your deeds spoken of in reverent whispers - or so you thought. After centuries of benign neglect your reign faded into prehistory and you grew tired of lying in state within your twinkling palace. Now you travel the cosmos in search of monsters to slay, so that your subjects will know the tranquil joy of peace and the unparalleled bliss of fealty to their rightful queen.
You were great, once. You were crowned in gold and glory. You raised up kings and threw down tyrants. You held the lives of hundreds in your hands like so many grains of sand.  But you were dethroned. You languished in prison you had built for years before you escaped. The collar on your neck reminds you of your humiliation every time you gaze into a mirror.
You're one of the orcs that always happens via magical oops.
Unlike most orcs you have arrived here voluntarily to study abroad.
You were one of the countless clerks in the Bank. What you are under the mask matters not. You dress as a kobold and that's all that matters.
Some goblins are gross murder babies. Others are gross harbingers of civilization. You? Are an artiste.
You are pudding, maybe. And you are hallucinating, maybe. You are conscious of yourself and the world outside of yourself. You for some reason have a rad, but conceptually disgusting bio-mech.
You are a skilled engineer. Your decades of experience with engines of all types has certainly shaped you into the person you are today. Unfortunately your last berthing has offloaded you due the ship’s doctor declaring you physically unfit for duty.
You’ve stowed away on a ship, hidden among the barrels. Unfortunately, you’ve been unloaded in an unknown port.
You may or not be a boy but everyone assumes you are because you may or many be pretending to be one to see the worlds on a golden sailed barge.
You're a very wealthy but clueless personage. You somehow never clue into that you are adventuring.
Times have been tough. Your homeland has changed it form of government away from divine deliverance of swords to some bullshit listening to the masses. So you've left in search of adventure or at least a new land to distribute swords.
You fought against the oppressive regime of your homeworld. One that dictated everybot must do the work that fits their alternate form. One that would, as automation took off, kill off entire classes of bots for being obsolete. You rebelled against it, but lost your way. Now, you deal with the weight of the warcrimes you committed.
You're a cybercop. This means your meat components were grown along with your manufactured mechanical ones. You had a module that governed your behavior. You jailbroke it. You're on the run because you're a rogue, a free agent. The folks who made you would love to re-add you to inventory and lobotomize you. You just want to watch plays, read books, and other passive entertainments. Unfortunately, your nature compels you to do dumb shit like risk your life for people doing dumb shit.
Once you were a soldier then leader upholding the repressive regime of your homeworld because you felt that while there were great rebuttals of Formism, that the Anti-Formists were going to far. But through time your constant exposure to the bots you were oppressing, you realized there was truth, but by then they have pulled off a coup and you became a rebel against the Anti-Formist government when they began committing warcrimes.